um okay so this time I will be talking
about transition based parsing with
neural nets at the so there are two
types of linguistic structure that we
often use I guess I probably should have
said syntactic structure but we have
dependencies which you read about in the
reading materials these focus on
relationships between the words so we
have something like this where we can
say saw is the head of I girl and with
and then with is the head of telescope
etc and then we also have phrase
structure which focuses on the structure
of the sentence and what all the phrases
the kind of the roles of the phrases in
the syntax of the sentence etc and these
have very different structures and very
different roles does anyone have an idea
let's say you want to use parsing in
your downstream tasks which one of these
should I use for my task any ideas about
that
is anybody using parsing in a task I
don't want to I don't want to make you
embarrassed if you're using the wrong
type but what type of parsing do you use
in what tales you use some tendencies
and phrase structure and what is your
task to extract feet but what what what
do you try to predict for free structure
for dependencies it's easier to get
heads actually so my so for dependency
trees are actually quite useful for a
lot of trees are actually quite useful
for a lot of things but in general my
interpretation is that dependencies are
better for a semantic tasks usually and
infrastructure is better for syntactic
tasks or you need structure of phrases
an example of this would be stuff like
question answering usually dependencies
are a better choice because they tell
you like what is the subject of this so
if you want to know who did what it's
easier to get that from dependencies
although of course you can get it from
phrase structure as well if you're doing
something like translation where you
want to be reordering phrases in the
correct order for example it's often
better to use something like phrase
structure because this tells you about
the structure of the sentence and
reordering and things like that but you
can also get that from dependencies so
it's not necessarily the case yeah
so um so that's a good question the
question was I'm I said that dependency
structure captures more of semantics and
phrase structure but for most most
dependency tree banks are actually
converted from phrase structure so the
that's a good point
I think phrase structure is generally
more rich in many ways you can for
example tell given in some cases you
cannot deterministically tell what the
phrase structure is from the dependency
structure but in most cases you can do
it deterministically in the other
direction but the thing is the
dependency structure shows you like the
subject in the object in a much more
direct way there's a single link between
the subject and object of a sentence
there's a single link between the sorry
a single link between the verb and the
subject of the sentence a single link
between the verb and the object of the
sentence so if you want to do something
like create a representation of the verb
based on its subject and object that's
really easy to do with dependency
structure but if you do it with phrase
structure then you basically have to
write those deterministic rules yourself
in your model to do that
so that's it's not impossible to do with
phrase structure but it's just a lot
more natural to do it in dependency
structure or a lot of time any other
questions yep um I see people who either
look confused or are doubting what I'm
saying if you have something to say feel
free to yes yes
oh is one better than the other to get
basically is it easier to parse one than
the other
um I don't think it's really that much
easier but if you can parse for a
structure you can parse you can't get
dependencies it often praise structure
parsers if you get a phrase structure
parts run your deterministic dependency
extraction rules and evaluate the
evaluate the accuracy of the
dependencies then you actually get
better dependency parsing scores from
your phrase structure parser so I think
it might be safe to say that phrase
structure parsing is is a harder problem
but it's we have better methods for it
so we we tend to do a little bit better
then I think many people would disagree
with me but that might be a good summary
but I think they're basically the same
in difficulty all the hard things for
phrase structure parsing are also hard
for dependency parsers
[Music]
okay so parsing parsing is predicting
linguistic structure from the input
sentence and there's two methods that
I'm going to talk about here one is
transition based models and they step
through the actions one by one until we
have an output and if you want an
analogue of this this is like the
history based models for part of speech
tagging that I talked about like the
teacher forcing models or the history
based RNN models and basically yeah it's
like that um I wrote graph based models
here actually I'm going to talk about
these next time and I actually changed
the name to dynamic programming models
so these are models where you don't
actually only do make predictions with
your neural network you also have some
sort of dynamic program on top of it so
yeah we calculate the probability of
each edge or consider
and then do some sort of dynamic
programming to decide and this is like
the the analog of this is our linear CRF
models that we talked about last time so
you can kind of think about these in
very similar ways although the
algorithms are different the basic idea
is the same but this time we're going to
talk about transition based models and
I'm going to talk about shift reduce
dependency parsing models so yeah why
why dependencies dependencies are kind
of already said this
they're often good for semantic tasks
because related words are close in the
tree it's also possible to create
labeled dependencies that explicitly
show the relationship between words so
if you want to know let's say you want
to know all the things that could be a a
object of saw you could just take all
your dependency trees grab all the links
that's a direct object and you get saw
girls so I saw a dog etc um so art
standard shift reduce parsing is you
basically process where words one left
with a one by one left to right this is
just reviewed so we have the queue or
the buffer the stack at each point
choose a shift a reduce left or a reduce
right and we learn how to choose each
action with a classifier so you know we
can get a tree like this so then the
nice thing about this method is now this
is just a classification problem like
all the other problems that we did
before we know how to make good
classifiers so let's try and make a
classifier to choose shift reduce left
or reduce with and this is an example
I'll be using this running example so I
saw a girl shift shift in staff and on
the left side we will be having we will
be having kind of open trees that we
have not finished yet if there
and the head of that tree will be
involved on the right we have the buffer
um
wait that's not shift I'm sorry then
that's a reduced left sorry my actions
got D synchronized here it's so so that
this is reduced left and then shift and
then shift and then reduce left reduce
right reduce right and then we have our
tree here so this is this is what our
example looks like okay so
classification how do we do this I think
this wasn't really covered very very
extensively in the reading but basically
we have a configuration based on this we
want to choose an action or I guess the
problem was was there but the methods
were not described so carefully so then
we wanted to shift left or right and so
basically what we want to do is we want
to extract features from that
configuration and the kind of features
that we can extract are what words are
on the stacker buffer for example what
are their part of speech tags what are
their children um and also one really
really important thing for dependency
parsing you said feature combinations
are important so just as an obvious
example of this
the second word on the stack is a verb
and the first word is a noun
if the second word on the staff is a
verb and the first word is a noun then
the right action is very likely because
it's very likely that we have for
example saw and then dog it will love to
draw a dependency link between them so
they so you know we we can make
combinations of these features and these
combinations of these features help us
classify accurately but the problem is
it's really hard to create good
combination features manually and for
example this paper as in different
eleven
increased the accuracy of dependency
parsing by several points just by
engineering better combination features
they didn't change an algorithm at all
they just went through and hand
engineered all the stuff that they
thought would be useful and and threw it
into the model but now unfortunately we
can use neural nets and neural nets are
good if they're good at anything they're
good at basically extracting combination
features for us so here's a first
attempt this was the one neural model
that was mentioned in the reading but it
was mentioned extremely briefly so I'll
talk about the the details here we're
sorry were there any questions up until
well okay so um this is a model for it's
a feed-forward neural model for
dependency parsing and the idea is
basically that we want to choose our our
shift or reduce left or reduce right
actions based on the other staff in the
buffer so from the stack in the buffer
what we do is we we extract features
these features can be about the words or
the part of speech tags or the arc
labels these arc labels are basically if
they're doing labeled dependency parsing
here so they have information about the
arc about the arc labels um they run
these through a hidden layer and then
the run of softmax where they basically
choose shift or reduce and then they let
the the neural network do the feature
combination for them so what features do
they extract um
they extract the top three words on the
stack in the buffer um and then they use
the word embeddings from the top three
words on the stack in the buffer they
extract the two leftmost and rightmost
children of the two of the top two words
on the stack so s1 is the top word on
the stack LC is its left child and or si
is its si is the
I've word on the stack lc1 is its first
left child lc2 is its second left child
so they extract all of these this
results in eight vectors of features
then they do the left most in rightmost
grandchildren with four features and
then they do the post tags of all of the
above the key features and then all the
ones that are children are twelve
features so they do a bunch of feature
extraction and then they can buy meats
together so does this strike anybody is
a little bit strange here no so the
reason why this is a little bit strange
is the whole reason why we want to do
neural networks is so we don't have to
do feature engineering right I just
listed a whole bunch of feature
engineering that this papers thing so
this this paper is halfway in between
the neural network revolution and in the
old stell thing so what they're doing is
they're extracting a lot of things that
might potentially be useful than they're
letting the neural net learn the
combination features they're not they're
not completely forgoing feature
engineering but they're letting the
neural net combine the things together
in the appropriate way they also have a
nonlinear function this nonlinear
function is the cube function this is
strange or it's unusual so what they do
is they basically take the cube of the
vet of the input vectors so what that
looks like is this they they basically
take all of the features and they
multiply these by a weight vector and a
weight matrix and then they take the
cube of this um and this is a kind of
strange function if you think about it
so they are they're basically cubing
they're basically huming the values of
things added together this did has
anyone taking a look at this paper and
know why they're doing this yeah
hi yeah it does it does look similar to
an activation function it looks kind of
like this it's liked it it's like the
opposites of our normal activation
function so the the normal activation
function is like this right this is our
th and this is our this is our huge so
that's a good observation so what does
anyone know why why they're doing this
based on this okay so the the answer
here um do people know about a support
vector machines so the support vector
machine so we have something called the
polynomial kernel which is basically a
thing where that combines all our
features together and takes in
multiplies like X by Y by Z and the idea
I think this might have been motivated
by this and it kind of seems like what
they wrote in the paper is it was
motivated by this but basically um if we
we can have a way where if all three of
any are active then it will make this
feature active so this feature function
here basically can say okay if these
three features are active we will make
this extracted feature active so you can
extract these combination features that
are combined up to up to three different
features combined together was the
motivation that was written in the paper
anyway they did experiments and showed
that this worked better than anything
else I've not really seen anybody else
use this since so I I don't I don't know
if it's easy to apply to other problems
but it might be one thing to think about
using yeah oh and here here's the
equation that they cited there so you
can do like wait it's equal to this so
you can extract things where three
features are basically multiplying
together um in with their result I won't
give all the numbers but basically this
was
in 2014 and this was really fast 1,000
words a second
it used a nice pre-computation trick to
basically cache the matrix multiplies of
common words this was also used in a
thing but basically the idea here is if
we're extracting features like this XW
is a XW sand embedding of a word so if
you take the top ten thousand words and
pre compute X W times the weight matrix
for all of those words you don't need to
compute that anytime you get you get one
of those words there in this sped up
this pre-computation trick sped up their
Mahr sir by a factor of ten I guess and
also they got strong results speeding
most existing transition based parses of
the time so this was kind of a big thing
I guess um I have a let's try it out
code walk here but I'm actually going to
skip this because it's almost exactly
the same is the thing I'm going to talk
about next and the thing I'm going to
talk about next is more interesting so
we'll talk about this but you can you
can take a look at the code we do have
the code there so any any questions
about that so far
I think it's pretty straightforward okay
so now I'm going to take a break from
parsing for a second and I'm going to
talk about tree structured composition
this isn't only for parsing this is if
you want to use parses in any of your
models so it could be used it is used in
parsing which is what I'm talking about
it now but it's also useful for
classification or whatever else um so
why why tree structure why would we want
to use tree structured composition and
basically the idea is um they can go
back to something like this which I
showed maybe in the third fourth class
or something like this this is the
the sentiment tree treebank
that Stanford created and basically you
can see that different parts of the
sentence kind of have a coherent
sentiment so the Empire lacks lacks in
depth but it it makes up for in heart so
the idea is if you look at coherent
phrases they kind of have a coherent
semantics they have a coherent sentiment
in this case um and if you combine them
together you get a very natural um you
can come up with a very natural way of
saying like negative sentiment but
positive sentiment if you have a tree
that looks like this and if you have
something that's negative sentiment but
positive sentiment then you're pretty
sure this is going to be a positive
sentiment overall and if you have this
tree structure you can actually write
you could almost write a rule-based
system that would do this for you I mean
anything where you can write a
rule-based system that can do something
for you it's probably really easy for
the neural network to learn to learn
this if you have to throw everything
into a big LS TM that learns how to
parse the sentence wallets learning how
to do sentiment analysis it's going to
be a lot harder and you're going to need
a lot more data so that's kind of the
motivation for using for using tree
structure when you're calculating
representations of sentences any
questions comments
okay um so one way to do this is these
are called recursive neural networks I
actually like to call them tree
structured networks because that it
makes it more clear that they're trees
but in the original paper they were
called recursive neural networks there's
actually another paper from 1991 that
has almost exactly the same figure in it
so they these are not new but this paper
was
the one that that showed us that they
work well in modern settings I guess so
yeah it basically looks like this if you
know the tree structure of the sentence
in advance you can compose things
according to this tree structure and you
can do it with with a function that
looks like this where you take the
representation for the left child and
the representation for the right child
multiply them by weight matrix and then
a Tobias and age so each of these tree
rmn the left one is h1 the right one is
h2 and and we can close things or do
this
any questions
oh so uh sorry that wasn't clear I'm
assuming the structure was already given
in this case so we already had a parser
that gave us a parse tree and we
calculate this so in in this paper
actually they already had this structure
and then they used that to do sentiment
analysis I will talk about next how we
use this while we're doing parsing also
okay um you can also do something like
parameterize by the constituent type so
you might have different composition
behavior for the noun phrase or the verb
phrase for example so we might make this
WAW specifically for noun phrases it W
specifically for verb phrases or
whatever and that could allow us to do
things like noun phrases we know the
head is usually going to be on the right
so we want to consider the stuff on the
right more verb phrases the head is
usually going to be on the left so we
want to consider the stuff on the left
um so that paper was all the way back
from 2011 which is like seven decades
now we have better methods like tree
structure Delos TIA
so tree structure to lsdm is there's
kind of two varieties of the
that were presented in this paper one is
the child some trialist IAM and the idea
is basically we share a single set of
parameters based on all between all of
the children they might be based on
grammatical label etc but usually
they're just shares and then we have an
LST m like function but we have a forget
gate that is different for each child
and what this means is that the network
can learn to ignore information from
particular children and give more weight
to two other children so intuitively
this is something like we have three but
let's say we have four things in a noun
phrase and it's like Bob big bad wolf in
each of these has its own vector um we
will run something that looks like the
lsdm update function and we'll get a new
vector up here for all of these but then
we have a forget gate value for all of
these and if the forget gate for the
left one is 0.95 0.8 0.8 0.1 it will
take this with a larger weight a weight
of 0.9 so it will mostly use the
information from this one over here but
it will also use a little bit of the
information from the modifiers and just
throw away the information for the
determiner
so kind of linguistically this is
interesting because it could you know
learn to remember or forgets
based on which parts of the tree were
more important the other nice benefit of
this is this applies to any number of
children you can use this if we had a
noun phrase that had 15 modifiers it
could
and exactly the same um on the on the
other hand it doesn't have any
information about the ordering of big
and bad actually so if big and bad are
in the opposite order the bad big wolf
that means something different than the
big bad wolf I guess probably so this
doesn't have the capacity to captured it
um well so it is but this model is
ignoring that so it's do it's
calculating each of these updates
independently and just summing
everything together so the second one is
the NRI tree LS um and this is um we
have dinner you have different
parameters for each child up to n so
this is like the tree are NN and but
this time you have different you have
different parameters so you can you have
handle stuff like ordering
um the only problem is now number one
and number two are completely different
so in this case the big wolf would have
a completely different calculation
function for and would have a completely
different function to calculate for wolf
than the big bad wolf would so it's it's
kind of a trade-off between these two
and then finally there's another one
which is biased um composition so the
idea here is you have any number of
constituents and instead of running them
through this simple tree R and n
function you take a bi-directional lsdm
you run it in the forward direction run
it in the backward direction over all of
these vectors and you calculate
representations and then use them it's
the representation for the next layer so
this is kind of giving up right we're
not going to design any beautiful tree
structure to lsdm we're just going to
assume that our regular lsdm is good
enough and it can automatically learn
how to compose stuff together
I don't think any work that I know of
has actually compared these two together
but um I kind of like both of them I
like this one for its design and
intuitiveness and this one because it's
really trusting neural networks are good
at doing things whichever one suits your
taste I guess is the one you should be
using are there any questions this one
we have a quick demo of
which was a tree pusher hooker
is this big enough third one to see so
here we have both the Shocker and typing
mirrors
so let's parsers so let's look at the
search feature one first I guess so you
reading all of your data
this is pouring into that oh so this is
the main function for the such a paper
what you're doing is you're sort of
recursively walking through the tree
until you hear a beep and then when you
have the leaf you're sort of going back
down the tree ending doing all the
competitions um so you can if you look
here this gets the two children then you
can post them get representations
multiply by the way it's then dip your
attention return that otherwise if it is
a leaf you return duplicate of a bad
expression and yeah this one's pretty
simple any questions about that I think
it should be pretty straight for this :
awesome
so the next one is the tree lsdm and
here you have a lot more parameters but
you're sort of doing the same thing
where you're walking through the dream
composing them but instead of just doing
this simple composition you have what
you're basically entire LM function here
so you concatenate the two children and
then running through the house yeah
essentially do I need to stuff like put
three two though
[Music]
right that's yeah and this is this is a
binary tree Ostia because all of the
trees in this data set are binary trees
so you're fine with doing this you if
you have actual parse trees it can have
multiple constituents or dependency
trees for example you would need to add
either the add additional parameters to
your mary-3 lsdm or use the child zone
for just this kindling is the same as
the previous one where if it's only a
few just returning don't look up for
that yes sir I'd first get that because
it is the second case is when you have
one child so like already and it's just
the competition for that yeah right it's
sort of building up to the point where
you get to binary tree I thought it was
a binary tree I actually I don't know
why this is here the e maybe I was
missing a unary like maybe the
non-terminals or where the pre-trip
referrals are you
[Music]
right
I have to admit I reused this from
something I did we did a long time ago
so I actually don't remember why we have
this year any other questions about this
okay I will and we'll go on to the next
one oh sure so that the output is
basically a vector that is the same size
as the previous vector um so so the
input to the lsdm is the representations
of all the children right and the output
of the ostium is the representation of
this node itself you see what I mean so
every node is a vector of say size 512
you run them through a by alla stem and
then you take the last state of both the
forward and backward lsdm so you can
catenate
viola scheme this can handle any any way
and it could learn you know more it
could probably learn more flexibly than
this cool so um I'll move on to the next
one this is a parsing model this parsing
model is is both pretty elegant and
quite successful it also uses tree
composition as part of the model which
is why I introduced the tree composition
first so I mentioned that we didn't want
to do feature engineering we didn't want
to do feature engineering in our parsing
model this model is is a way to do a
prediction without doing any feature
engineering so the way it does this is
by instead of engineering features it
tries to encode everything with a
neural network and the information that
we have to encode is the stack in the
buffer one thing that was not used in
the previous not used in the previous
work is whether we just did a shift just
at a reduced just it or reduced left or
just did a reduce right so the previous
work didn't directly use the action
history in its calculation so this one
can also use the history of past actions
so the way we do this is we basically
take a three
excuse me three RN ends one RN n is in
charge of encoding the step one R and
then is in charge of encoding the buffer
so the status of the things we've
already or we're parsing right now the
buffer is the words we are we haven't
seen yet and the action history is the
shift reduce left etc and it just
combines all of these representations
together and makes a prediction so this
the top right one in the bottom one are
completely straightforward this is just
a regular recurrent neural network and
we don't need to think about this we
already know how to do this the one on
the left's a little bit more tricky
right we see we have a tree here in this
tree is included in our recurrent as
input or recurrent neural network so we
can embed words so the key insight here
is that we can embed words but we can
also embed tree fragments right so I
just showed you how to embed tree
fragments we we have stack Alice T on or
sorry we have a we have tree L STM's or
we have a bio bio ostium composition
function that we can you call
recursively and this this particular
method is using the biology on
composition function to Kim both can
post these trees so the the contents of
a buffer are basically this
sequence of embedded words which we
periodically shift from and the contents
of the stack are a sequence of embedded
trees that we periodically should pop
from initiative and because these are
sequences we can use in our and then to
get the encoding um but what we don't
want to be doing is run the RNN over and
over and over again because if we run
the RNN over and over and over again for
every parse configuration this would be
a huge waste of memory so the there's a
kind of neat trick about implementing
this implementing this efficiently it's
called the staff RNN so basically it's
an RNN with a stack pointer so like a
stack you can push or pop push to it or
pop from it and it has three constant
time operations push pop or embed or
return the embedding so return the RNN
state at the location of the stack
pointer which summarizes its current
contents so the way this looks we in
this this code up on the top right is
from dyno'd but we have we start out
here with a null stack we push something
onto the stack and then we pop it from
the stack we push something onto the
stack pop it from the stack and then
maybe push push something back onto the
stack and this is what we would want to
do if we basically did a shift and then
we did a reduce a shift or reduce a
shift or reduce so if you think about it
every time we reduce we need to create a
new thing on the stack and it's going to
be different from what we used before so
this is a way to implement this so
that's um this kind of parsing strategy
that I showed here if you if you look
for this on in the paper it's called a
stack LST M really the model is the
model here using our immensity and Coby
context in the use of a staff are kind
of independent tricks but this is called
stack ostium because it's using this
step to be able to do this sufficient
and we have an example of this this is
the thing that I said was more
interesting than the feed-forward
parsers so now we can take a look at
what this looks like
yeah so this is the stack lsdm so you
have your set of actions you read in
your vocab you reading the quick
transitions from the Oracle so after
this you're going to have every sentence
is going to be paired up with a list of
the correct actions um so if we come
okay so do you have the network do that
yeah so there was a there was a thing in
the the reading materials about how we
calculate the Oracle we also have an
example of this here in Oracle that PI
and this basically reads in so this
reason sentences paired up with their
correct heads
so the way I'm formatting this is it has
every word then it has the crypt head um
and you want to take this and return a
list of correct actions that you can use
for your parsing algorithm um this is
not the most efficient or a well written
Oracle but it works I think oh so
obviously what you do is you read the
entire sentence into the buffer and then
if the stack is empty or only has one
element you cannot do a left to right
reduce so you have to um otherwise
you compare the top of the stack the
head of that with the location in the
sentence of the element underneath that
and if that is those are the same that
means the head of the top of the stack
is the second element in the stack in
which case you can do a reduce the same
thing for the head of the second one in
the stack
the top of the sack you can do a ridged
other way that time um however you need
to make sure you're not accidentally
reducing elements in the stack that
still have item like other words that
have them as their head later in the
sentence because if you do that they'll
be gone so then by the time you shift
the word that has been as the head into
the stack you can reduce them so that's
what this right so when we go back to
the stack goes look at horse the spora
collections is that list of actions so
this will look something like shifts
shifts reduced left shift shift Bruce
left Rudi's left orders right shift
shift whatever then we go up we have the
buffer earning the stack earning and a
bunch of travelers something important
to note this we also have and keep
buffering bidding and this is just
something that helps a bit when you push
everything off of the buffer there's
still something there to return and
output so that you can still compose
that with everything else if the buffer
was completely empty and we didn't have
an embedding there you wouldn't be able
to return an output for that to compose
with the rest of your functions then to
go through the good you
look up all of the words and then append
them all to the buffer the embedding and
the vocab ID thing you this sort of
steps through the sentence until both
the stack has one element left and to
the buffer is completely of D own make a
list of Ballad actions which is going to
be either shift or shift and reduce
right reduced left um or dis reduced
right reduce left then as long as there
are valid actions as long as you're not
done um you get the buffer embedding as
remember in the buffer we were storing
them as a tuple so you get the buffer
embedding the stack embedding and then
the parser state was just the
concatenation of the buffer embedding
the stack embedding you go through the
10h and you get the either the max
action or if you have an Oracle
um you choose the correct action from
that afterwards you need to perform the
action so if you're performing a shift
you are going to move the top of the
buffer through the stack if you are
doing either a write reduce or a left
reduce those are essentially the same
action with the head in the modifier
being swapped so if you look here this
chooses the head in the modifier as
either the left in the right or the
right in the left depending if there's
left or if espero Reuters right oh and
then you sort of go through the example
that Graham showed um where you're going
to pop the top of the stack and the two
top items of the stack and then push
back on whichever one is not the
modifier so you perspect on the head and
so it's um this is more complicated than
the things we've done before but you can
see it's still you know several you know
the whole thing is maybe less than two
hundred lines of code and this is
basically a state of the art well we
first were parsing we already know
what's coming in the future we already
know the whole sentence so we can use
the future words to decide what action
to do next so for example if we see that
there's a if we see that there's a
preposition coming up next we will
probably be wanting to shift I'll ask
the same question why not Ellis Jim
Ellis James worked for almost
everything's no but you know we could we
could just use the next three words but
you know we have all the words we have
LST MS which can learn things about
variably wing sequences so it seems like
it should work to a feed-forward model
for whatever reason you rip out the LST
I'm part of this and you put in your
feature extractor and then your people
are network on top of that right so you
can def the feed-forward Network versus
lsdm and see what the differences are
here I think you adapted the
feed-forward from the ACM so yeah no
okay I'll move on to the the next one so
she
reduced parsing for phrase structure all
I talked about dependencies this entire
time but there's also phrase structure
as well shift reduce parsing isn't used
for phrase structure parsing as much for
a variety of reasons but it is it is
still used pretty extensively I looked
up the first shift reduce restructure
parsing thing and apparently it was
probably made here at CMU by Kenji
Sergei and om movie but that was just
with a linear classifier and I think
Watanabe at all were the the one or what
that I think was the first one to apply
it to neural models so if we have a
phrase structure tree like this the it
basically looks very similar the first
thing we do is we bind binarize our tree
so we take all things with more than
more than two children and turn them
into a kind of right branching tree with
only two children and then we have an
actions like shift and then reduce with
the symbol and also unary so we can
stick a unary on a unary symbol on like
this so basically the entirely similar
thing can be done for phrase structure
parsing as well just you need to change
your actions a little bit you need to
change your model structure accordingly
as well I'm sure but the idea is reason
one kind of interesting thing with
regards to phrase structure is recurrent
neural network grammars these are
generative models for parsing so this is
the opposite between or the difference
between this and the model I showed
before us the previous model was a
discriminative model I tried to predict
the tree given the input this one tries
to generate both the both the sentence
and the tree at the same time so what
this looks like is you just have a non
terminal s non terminal
P and then generate when you do shift
instead of shifting you generate a word
basically so you generate value generate
hungry cap of VP and this has the same
kind of composition etc that was in the
staff lsdm model um so why would we want
to do a generative generative model one
of the really interesting things here is
this can be used as a language model as
well you can use this to predict the
probability of a sentence you could also
put this on the output side of your
sequence to sequence model and have
something that generates trees at the
same time that it's generating a
translation or a dialog response or
whatever else you wanted to generate
this gave good part seeing results so
the this for a while was the
top-performing parsing model and the
penn treebank but one important thing to
know is that decoding I shouldn't say
decoding sorry parsing is difficult so
it's not trivial to be able to parse
with this well so you need to generate
what it did was it generated with the
discriminative model first and then
degree ranking when you're calculating
the language model probabilities you
also need to do something called
important sampling to calculate things
so I think this is a really good and
elegant model but it's a bit more
difficult computationally so be aware of
that if you if you want to dig into this
so in terms of a simple approximation to
what the recurrent neural network
grammar is doing there's also a
linearized trees so the idea is it's
very very similar to the RNG but it just
takes a tree and treats it as a symbol
sequence like this so if you have a tree
s n P and n NP you do pre order to vert
traversal so you you take the top one
first then the left one left one
and you create a simple sequence like
this and you can generate the simple
sequence using a regular sequence to
sequence model in fact you could take
any general-purpose neural machine
translation system and train it on this
data here and it would do something for
you the good thing that's the great
thing about this it's super easy to
apply the bad thing about this is it
doesn't have an explicit composition
function for example it can't treat
composed trees as a single vector like
the stack L on that stack Alice TM bar R
and then g/km um this turns out to be
really really important for the CLS DMR
RN and G performance it is probably the
reason why the second Oh see I'm in RN
and G perform better than these these
more simple models the other thing is
that it's not guaranteed output well
form trees like every once in a while
you'll get a tree where it doesn't have
enough closed brackets or something like
that so what you do in that case is you
just add extra brackets at the end
apparently so it's a cheap hack to make
this actually make this actually work
properly there are there are ways to fix
this but that tends to kind of kind of
fix the problem so that's all for this
time that's a brief overview of
transition based personalities
I should emphasize I talked about
dependency trees infrastructure trees
you can use these to generate any trees
you want of course so if you have any
anything else in tree structure
yes in this model they have structure in
the test yes and then maybe the test is
different from right so this is I should
emphasize that none of the models in
this section our parsing models these
are all models that assume we have a
tree and then based on that tree learned
the representations of our sentence so
on all the other models I talked about
our models that take in a string and try
to generate a tree these are just models
that say we have a tree what is our
vector so that is one of the reasons why
you can't apply these trivially to like
a generation task for example you
couldn't you couldn't create a language
model performance anything else
um if not I will I guess all finish up
oh oh how do you evaluate yeah it's it's
usually so dependency parsing is
actually relatively easy its attachment
accuracy which is for every word every
word has one head and it's just the
accuracy of choosing that head and then
you have unlabeled attachment score
which is just whether you were able to
choose the head correctly and labeled
attachment score where you whether you
chose a head and the label for phrase
structure parsing it's harder because
you have spans and you have you have
spans you can have you Nerys etc and
there the standard measure is is phrase
F measure which is basically your f
measure of generating oh label for each
span like you mean the the
interpretation of this sentences
ambiguous so actually you do not do
dependency annotation on only one
sentence you do dependency annotation on
the whole article and like the pen in
the wall street journal in the pantry
bank so the annotation itself might be
different for two different identical
sentences that appear in the penn
treebank because based on the context
their interpretation changes i know i
don't know of any parsing model that
actually considers that I'm not I'm not
mainly a parsing person so I there might
be one that I don't know of but I think
almost how easy just parsed by the
sentence but I think the majority of the
ambiguity is also resolved by
the single sentences so it's not dead
okay okay thanks a lot everyone